and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I share actionable
SEO and website B2 marketing tips useful
goodies podcasts and more give it a try
if you like over at business growth dot
emails so join me today
Sprint yag welcome to the show sir how
are we
I'm doing Fantastic Sam so good to be
here nice to meet you and I think this
is going to be a great conversation
today I've no doubt I have no doubt at
all so today we're going to be talking
about why content fails without a point
of view excited to dive in so first and
foremost yeah I prefer anyone that's not
familiar with this concept like why the
heck does content need to have a point
of view around it
yeah no absolutely that's a fantastic
question great place to start see
fundamentally what happens is everybody
creates content and in the world of SAS
and that too the times that we live in
today where probably everybody is trying
to use gender DVI like chat GPT or Bard
to create content it's like the
opportunity and ability to create
content is so easy all you have to do is
give you give a few prompts generate
content try to optimize it for SEO and
then boom it ranks but what happens is
slowly and steadily it creates so much
of content that is going to be invisible
in the sense that you know it's going to
create great content that can be
optimized easily but imagine this
scenario you know you go online you
search for something and every time you
search you often see a couple or you
know three or four companies that often
gets listed in the top five and they
rank for every single thing and when you
click on it you go and see that almost
all the five links give you the same set
of pointers just regurgitated here and
there and there is no clear takeaway but
on the contrary point of view is the way
you actually go and build trust so I'll
give you an example
um before starting SAS prints you know I
used to work for a company called avoma
and one of my biggest
reasons to join Obama was that
you know there was gong that was chorus
there were all these conversational
intelligence tools in the industry but
this was one company that was not
telling a story that every other company
that was trying to compete with gong
dead you know everybody else was saying
that we are a cheaper gong we offer 80
of things that they do at twenty percent
of the price and that kind of a same
story but these guys went the opposite
route and they said hey we have a point
of view towards how we're solving this
problem you know we think that every
meeting has a life cycle set of things
that you do before during and after the
meeting and these are the different
areas that we go about solving now I'll
not go into the pitch of the product but
the idea is that they had a clear point
of view as to how they are solving the
problem while they look at the problem
in a certain way and how should you
approach it if there is nothing unique
about you how would you attract people
you know how would you build trust
people will build trust with you only
because you know certain people who
believe in your viewpoints and think
that yes that makes a lot of sense to me
now show me how then you're having a
conversation otherwise it's like okay
the same set of pointers that everybody
is talking about I can Google and get it
anywhere I can get it from HubSpot I can
get it from HPR but why should I believe
somebody from this domain expertise if
they're not having a point of view
um yeah great great place to start and
it's it's so true especially with search
engine rankings like when you search so
many terms especially in the B2B
technology space
um you depending on the sector you'll
see the same few vendors pop up and like
you said the issue that there is there
is that for many of these terms to
actually get them ranking they need to
be in a certain format to match the user
intent and yeah I suppose that's where a
lot of those companies struggle because
what they probably do is they see the
top three companies ranking in organic
search they see okay they've done this
as a listicle or they've done this is
like a how-to or they've done this as an
in-depth walkthrough case study we're
going to copy that we're going to add a
bit more content we're going to a few
tweaks and hopefully we'll rank ahead of
them so I think it's just a constant Rat
Race whereas I think what you're getting
at is perhaps take that framework but
stick your own unique point of view in
the the content that you're putting yeah
it's also about you know uh picking uh
topics from the same standpoint you know
for example you would see a HubSpot
suddenly talking about uh you know how
to create a gif that has nothing to do
with what they sell but just because
they're talking and you think that I
also want to rank I'll also follow the
same strategy I'll also do the same set
of things but hey you are a startup you
know at this point it's more important
to focus on set of things that will help
you at this point and you are at a
different stage you're at a different
maturity curve you know don't copy
somebody who has been there for the last
20 years yeah yeah yeah for sure for
sure so
how important is it to have a point of
view like you've mentioned a company you
used to work at and you've mentioned
there's a point of differentiation
but what's the kind of impact they can
have
yeah so the impact is in every single
thing you know there are opportunities
to tell different kinds of stories
um you can look at you know it can even
become your way to kind of build your
content pillars okay this is my point of
view what does it mean right so uh it
means that okay when I if I have to take
the same example I would say okay what
do you mean by a life cycle
then you have an opportunity to explain
that yes it might not have a lot of
search volume but what happens is in the
beginning stages it actually helps you
to build a loyal audience it I'm not
saying ignore seo seo is super important
I know I'm a marketer I'll uh I
obviously understand that in the initial
stages you cannot completely go
Dimension you have to have a combination
of Dimension and depend demand capture
so what you have to do is when you have
a point of view you also have to start
listening to the conversation of your
customers you know and saying that okay
um what are the kind of questions that
these guys are asking how do I marry
this question because if they're asking
these questions these are coming up
consistently and I also have a point of
view but all of these conversations are
actually happening over the sales calls
but I'm not able to put this out at
scale then listening to these calls is
going to give you a perspective that hey
these are the five things that keep
coming up I need to create content on
this you know I need to scale this and
now why is point of view important it's
important because that tells you that
this company exists for a very specific
reason you know they are not also Rand
companies but these companies have an
approach they have a DNA and because of
these things these are the kind of
features that they're going to build in
time and again over a period of time and
this is the direction that they're gonna
go and the beauty of point of view is
that you're gonna divide that point of
view to two aspects set of stories that
you will tell your investors because the
story that you tell your investors is
probably what's going to happen five ten
years down the line versus what your
customers are more interested is what
can you do for them today and uh these
are two entire different things and when
you have a point of view it's going to
be somewhere in the middle but it's
gonna you you're gonna direct that
flavor into what should I tell my
customers and how does it relate to them
right now and how does this relate to
investors right now and um what is the
kind of belief system that I'm gonna
inculcate within the company so that
every single person who is creating
content on social media or in a blog or
through a podcast or on YouTube videos
that DNA kind of flows through otherwise
it's going to look like everybody's
creating content and it's going to look
like multiple islands that are not
connected to each other
um
um yeah yeah so you've answered some
good points at creating content around
customer insights and listening into
what prospects are saying you mentioned
early stage companies yeah so if you're
up for it yeah I think what would be
quite fun is if we recreate a little
scenario let's stay we are an early
stage let's say software company yeah
yeah and
where we could do cool recording
software something like a Vemma or gong
or we can do anything I'm not bothered
about the niche what I want to get into
is
how soon let's say we've got our early
stage company how soon do we need to
think about building our point of view
um on our messaging on our content Etc
is it something we need from day dot
from from right at the start or is it
more important to try and get a few of
those early stage customers get some
cash in the bank get the revenue flowing
especially if we're bootstrapped as
opposed to funded
um or is it something that's fundamental
before we kind of do any of our
marketing or selling efforts
right so I wouldn't say it's yeah you
know you have to have it from day one
it's not easy to get it from day one so
what's gonna happen is when you're
building your product regardless of what
your product is you know um as a Founder
you're gonna take a bet because you
believe in a certain set of things and
you want to do things in a certain way
and um you are picking a lane because
that's your belief system so that can be
a starting point which you can lay down
uh to the organization most of the time
what happens is you know uh this can be
translated this way when you hear a
Founder selling the product versus the
first AE coming into the company and
selling the product you would see a
drastic difference between the way these
two sell the first person tells a story
wherein because he or she has the
awareness of where they come from the
mistakes that they've done in the past
the kind of customers that they've
spoken to what has not worked and then
they are going to come up with and say
that hey I tried all these things these
things didn't work and this is what we
learned and that's that's the direction
that we are going so that when you come
up with an obstacle I can say that yes
that's great but why are you saying that
you know your point of view helps you in
two things one is when you're making a
feature request to me in a conversation
like that I'll be able to rather than
saying that yes let me take a note and
get back to you in the next call after
discussing with my engineering team or
rather dig one level deeper and say that
why are you saying that why do you need
this and once you understand that then
you say that hey you know what maybe
that approach will not help you the long
term because of X Y and Z and we our
product is developed in a certain manner
because this is the vision and this is
the long way to go and this is probably
our suggestion so all those things are
going to come from your point of view
and those point of view is going to be
built and refined over a period of time
you start somewhere and you know I would
say every quarter or so or every month
or so depending on the volume of
customer conversations you're going to
have look back and see what resonates
better
and say that okay this is where I
started this is what I believe in and
this is what is working between these
two is where you're going to actually
arrive at your point of view and it's
it's going to happen over iterations and
you cannot start from it you have to
take a pick but then refine over a
period of time yeah yeah yeah and from
your experience is it typically like a
strap line like a website headline is it
a massive document or is it somewhere in
between or what does it actually look
like in tangible terms right right so um
it's in most initial starting stage
companies you're not definitely not
going to have it as a document unless
you know uh maybe that's why I would
highly recommend that um you know your
first marketing hire if somebody's smart
enough they'll start with a product
marketing hire because they are going to
lay down the messaging and positioning
and the story in a document they're
going to come up with a message house
and saying that this is and here's why I
say that because you know every single
person explaining a feature are going to
do it differently based on how they look
at it but once you lay down a common way
of explaining I'm not saying make it a
boilerplate everybody should use the
same set of words but make it a starting
point you know from there you say that
in your own way and that's the starting
point and then your website every single
page is going to be a translation of
that you know it's it's very difficult
to look at a company's website and say
that hey they say this maybe that's what
their positioning is not really you know
uh some company might say that I might
have 20 things to do but you is where
you start you know that can be what the
home page is and then when they're
serving multiple personas they can have
a point of view for each person I know
how do I help sales people versus how do
I help customer success people so you're
gonna have different stories but the DNA
is going to be common which needs to be
captured in the form of a message house
and that needs to be branched down into
every single thing that you do and again
that doesn't mean that it's so
sacrosanct that you cannot deviate from
that
you can be experimental but every now
and then you also need to update that
so how early should we start creating
POV content like what what timeline does
that come in roughly
I would say you know that's that's a
good place to actually start you know
one of your first few pieces of content
can directly be that so here's why I say
that you know once you become bigger you
probably have to start talking about
um every uh keyword on Earth because you
know you're trying to capture volume but
in the beginning
um here's where I actually believe that
it's not only point of view here's where
I would directly uh correlate that to
product LED content which is something
that I truly believe in what I mean by
that is uh you know your you have
minimum set of time and when you have a
smaller subset you cannot burn Bridges
every single person coming into your
website you want the conversion rate to
be way higher and um you know maybe
initially you're just getting about 50
people visit your website and out of
that you want at least five of them to
uh sign up for your product and start a
conversation with you so how do you do
that you pick a topic which talks about
a particular pain and uh when you talk
about a pain you're not directly selling
the product through that click content
what you're actually doing is you're
showing them that how to go about
solving this you know if
say for example
um I'm saying that hey do you use a
conversational intelligence tool but do
you know that um 75 percent of the sales
people who use a conversation
intelligence tool don't even listen to
sales calls
I'm like yeah that makes a lot of sense
you know I have invested in gong I have
invested in this product but yes of
course why does it happen then you tell
a story saying that hey you know what uh
the reason is imagine that you have five
sales people on your team and each of
them are doing about five demos a day
that's about 25 demos every single day
right and uh with that each demo being
about 30 minutes it's going to be
roughly about 750 minutes of calls every
single day as a sales leader do you have
that much amount of time listening no
what do you do you rather use AI where
the AI listens to the conversation it
scores on the parameters that you define
and then it tells you that these three
calls did not hit the mark because of
these things and I'm scoring this low
now you know which calls to pick so that
you can coach your team based on that
now you tell the story it hits the pain
point it also talks about the story and
you're also showing how it solves it
you're not selling the product you're
just saying that this is how I use the
product to solve this that becomes an
interesting proposition and that's what
I call it product LED and one of the
best examples in the world is how hrefs
does it every single person you know
um who before even signing the product
they know how to use it they know what
problems to solve and the funny part
here is that you know somebody says hey
do you want a backlink this is how you
use ahrefs do it and the best part is
href is not going to give you backlinks
it's just showing how to do research but
they are showing the product in every
single story that they say
so that's what I mean by that and you
need to do this in the beginning as soon
as possible I don't think you can beat
hrefs marketing and that's I'm not
biased because they used to sponsor this
show and they do every now and then but
um they actually make every new higher
sit on customer service I think it's
either for two weeks or four weeks just
so they can listen into customer calls
and customer questions and queries get
all those insights before they do any
marketing work which is incredible I've
never heard of a company doing that
before absolutely their content is
awesome huge fan yeah for sure for sure
um so yeah you mentioned a good point
there about kind of building out topic
around pain points and then digging into
those problems and eventually talking
about kind of how your offer will
address those
if we're early stage like is this
something we have to do and how what
does that actually look like young like
are we talking to customers to or
prospects to find out what those are and
then building content on that around
that straight away or what what are the
steps we take I guess to take a step
back into actually understanding what
those problems might be building out
that content
um what does that kind of process look
like yeah yeah so I would you know uh
divide this entire pain points into two
categories you know I would say
um the first order pain points and
second order pain points what I mean by
that is uh the set of problems that your
product immediately solves for that's
your primary pain Point again going by
the same conversation does this example
you could say that hey I help in sales
coaching I help you when uh probably
booking and scheduling demos I take
notes for you
um all these you know four or five
points now you talk about those then you
can build a list of topics around that
you can say that okay when it comes to
note taking you can talk about topics
like
um hey you know while you are in this
kind of a conversation uh while I'm also
manually taking notes I might miss some
key things that you're saying you know
and uh the problem is when it's an
internal conversation yes I can you know
go tap the shoulder of a person and ask
that hey I you said something in the
meeting I missed it but you cannot do
that with an external customer or you
cannot do that with a prospect so
um you know recording and having a tool
that does all these uh note taking would
be fantastic so you can build topics
like that but what happens is 90 of the
people stop at that you know it's it's
just about those first order pain points
now
Beyond a point you're gonna have uh
you're gonna stop getting pains that you
want to address right so if your product
is just solving five or six problems or
probably two or three problems then you
might add best come up with some 20
different titles but what are you going
to do after that right so that's where
your adjacent problems or secondary pain
points come into play wherein you're
going to say that okay what are uh what
are the uses of this tool also uh going
through so somebody addressing uh say a
tool like hrefs they can probably also
talk about
um crms you know they can also talk
about emails and then the idea is
because you know you are also going to
understand that the set of people who
are using your product also use these
three or four other tools so what are
the pain points that they uh go through
in that area maybe your product does not
directly address it it can be a bit
tangential but you know if it can
connect to it so for example an email
tool and a CRM tool can be a great
combination or a dialer and a
conversation intelligence tool can be a
great conversation in a combination or a
conferencing tool and a meeting
assistant can be a great combination or
a calendly and a Google meet can be a
great combination you know you can start
picking up these kind of pairs and say
that okay the same set of people also go
through these problems let me help them
solving those problems and genuinely
build trust and uh once they
consistently see uh and uh you know they
build trust with us then over and the
logic behind this is very simple the
logic is that you know I strongly
believe that going forward it's not
going to be Pure Play people searching
for a topic and landing on things it's
going to be about people will begin to
search with certain uh domains certain
people uh for specific topics what I
mean by that is for example if I want to
learn anything about martech I'm always
going to see that what is uh probably
Scott Brinker talking about this or if
there is anything around positioning I'm
going to think about what is April
Dunford saying about this if there is
something related to uh you know SEO I'm
also going to think okay what is uh Tim
sulo going to talk about this so that is
the set of topics where you also have to
build Authority as a person and build
that trust so that once you do that then
people are going to think that hey these
guys what do they do they also do these
things let me go and see what they talk
about that and then the chances of you
building trust and also coming up with
topics that is of high relevance and
making sure that even if you expand this
is not the typical top of the funnel
content where you're coming up with uh
10 topics and that doesn't even make
sense to anybody else because that's
trending but the point is you're still
tangentially talking about something
that is very relevant to your core
audience so the secondary pane is that
it's not about what you're not solving
it's also about are you still talking to
the same audience and you're catering to
them first
hmm you mentioned competitors there I
might have misunderstood this but was
that part in terms of Alternatives
searches because I know you mentioned
like if you're doing a scheduling tour
it might be like I don't calendly be
Chili Pepper or something like that is
that the kind of queries you mean or is
it something slightly different just so
I understand so no when I said the
secondary problems I'm talking about
complementary problems also not
necessarily competition uh so
um you know alternatives are a different
set it's like uh there the story is very
different right so I'm gonna uh say that
hey if somebody is going to compare
calendly versus some other scheduling
tool then it it's more of a feature and
a point of view combination where it's
going to say that hey calendar takes
this approach to solve this problem
whereas I take a different approach I
mean one of the best comparisons I've
often seen is probably also drift and
intercom they uh you know drift comes
out and says that hey these guys are
great at support but we we are great at
sales and Market
you know same
um tool but they say that this is the
DNA is very different so that's the
different story but I'm talking about
when I say secondary pain points I'm
talking about I cater to the same
audience but today I might be a
conversation intelligence tool and I
might not be building my own uh Zoom
competitor but I'm saying that hey if
you're using Zoom maybe uh you might
have often noticed that Zoom does not
um take notes for you and uh the if
you're if you're attending 10 calls
every single day back to back you might
miss so many things does it resonate
with you yes so this is how you go about
solving it there is a connection to your
product but it's not direct but you're
helping uh not the set of people who are
comparing you against gong but you're
actually talking to some other audience
because somebody who uses your product
will obviously be using a conferencing
tool for sure so you're just addressing
that audience
and we're building the this content in
the hope that it will rank for when
people search for the problem or will it
be for a relevant keyword or will it be
for a mix of both or what's the kind of
strategic play here is a is it a capture
demand process on Google organic search
for a bit different
yeah yeah so it's to me it's going to be
a combination of both maybe I can give
you an example
um it so happened a few months back that
you know I once heard my a
um on a call where um she was being
asked this question that hey I see this
thing called filler words in your
product and uh I know what filler words
are and I know that this is showing me
uh the set of uh filler words that uh I
might be using in every single call but
does it
um you know how does that help me you
know does it mean that the number of
filler words that I use
um may have an impact on Me closing the
deal and when I heard that I was like
wow that makes a lot of sense you know
uh that's a great question why don't we
have content around that and when I
started developing content around that I
was like okay this is a great question
and when I went back I researched and I
got three points I said that um you know
when I reviewed all the calls that we
had we got three factors one was that uh
hey just because you uh use a filler
word it doesn't mean that you're gonna
make or break a deal number two if
you're using 75 kilowatts for every 100
words you speak you're going to come
across as you're not prepared you're not
uh you're probably uh you know a bit
tensed nervous and you're not sure of
what you're saying number three if
you're 100 clean it's gonna come across
as two plastic to rehearsed and it's not
very original as well so once we saw
these three things then I was like wow
we have the answer but how are people
going to find this then I went to ahrefs
and I found that uh the number of the
search volume for the word filler words
was about six thousand per month I was
like wow we have a great combination
here you know you have to make these two
work together so that people who are
searching for that keyword with the
combination of whatever uh pain then we
are going to uh cater to the intent plus
volume so that magic happens there
um
what are your thoughts on um
building out those kind of pain point
Plus
keyword
when On Tools like hrefs or semrush they
show zero search volume but you know
you're getting a lot of
prospects raise that objection or that
query so in your head
you know it's you know there's demand
for it because people are asking this
question or raising this issue all the
time but when you look on the tools
it shows up as zero or maybe 10 searches
a month
no it has happened to me all the time
I'm smiling because uh you know I face
the situation n number of times and I've
always gone with the thing that
if I'm sure that this is a question
that's continuously coming up on sales
and
um let's go ahead let's not worry about
the volume and many times you know it
has happened that that particular topic
has always resulted in um you know 30k
40K deals every single month over a
period of time
so it works so ultimately you know
here's here's the
uh here's here's my uh interesting point
of view towards that uh it's that many a
time if you go behind such volume it's
great it might rank it might bring in a
lot of traffic but will it convert you
can never be sure
so always prioritize the pain points and
always prioritize the angles that are
more relevant to your product in fact I
even would say that go with the
prioritization Matrix wherein if your
topic does not have scope for mentioning
your product or your point of view don't
prioritize those topics
that's nice
and in terms of getting the content that
you build to rank yeah do you have a
process for doing so
yeah yeah you mean uh the how to build
the topics
so so for example we can go with what
you just mentioned there like filler
words that you can you can share with us
what the full keyword was in a sec and
then um when we're building out that
page it's like you say quite often and
it might not be the case for this
because this might be a low search
volume keyword yeah
more competitive terms
like you say you might search on Google
the top three organic results are much
of a muchness very similar in terms of
the content the framework that they
build
I'd be Keen to know because I know what
my ideas are perhaps I can share these
after but what's your process around
actually yes we know what we're going to
Target now perhaps we're going to get a
problem in our niche but how do we
ensure that that content is actually
gonna rank page one so it's actually
going to get those prospects to click
through the page and have a chance of
getting that sign up or that demo
request or whatever CTA we're after
yeah yeah so um I often actually uh
start with a different approach I um to
me um the the search volume and keywords
comes much later so the way I go about
it is um you know for every quarter I
typically build
um a couple of pillars at a time and I
say that these two are the pillars that
I'm gonna focus and it's going to be
either based on a product release that's
coming up or uh you know or if we want
to build domain Authority and topical
Authority on certain topics then we are
going to pick those things and once we
decide these two pillars then we are
going to come up with a list of things
that we want to address in that you know
what are the kind of questions now just
like I said uh in the sales coaching
example I said that 75 of the people
don't even listen to calls that's a
problem that we've often heard and
similarly uh you know it could be
something else if people are looking for
certain kind of data and they are not
getting it or uh
this is how people approach coaching
there can be anything like that so you
based on all that you have heard
consistently
um talking to your sales people talking
to or hearing calls and also going by
your own understanding of where you want
to be and a combination of your point of
view that you want to put out maybe it's
many times you know the point of your
content is also that you want the market
uh to approach things in a certain way
and the for let me give you an example
with that as well you know uh for a long
time
um
that has been the VC people tell you
that hey either go product LED or either
go salesled uh and many times I
personally believe that it's a
combination of both that's actually
going to work for example
um it doesn't mean that if your product
LED you should not have sales assistance
you know it's it's like walking into a
supermarket wherein you're all alone
picking things from the aisles but when
you're not able to find something you
still are looking at the corner of your
eyes as someone that I can reach out to
to ask for help you know so when you
have things like that you're going to
list those topics and once you have that
then you're going to look at okay let me
match the nearest keyword for all these
topics
um so that there is a volume for that as
well and all the efforts that you put in
don't go to waste there is a search as
well and then the next point is from
there I think about I don't just land at
ranking on search alone as a key term
sometimes I don't even worry about it I
think that okay where are these people
hanging out maybe let me create those
platform specific content in those
places alone and uh many times I also
arrive at ideas from communities you
know it's it's sort of a Content
Arbitrage so to speak wherein you go
into community and you see that
somebody's talking about these five
things again and again around the core
topic that you actually solve for or
they are talking about a competitor and
they're telling a list of things that
they don't like those are factors that
you can actually pick up and then create
your piece of content and that the best
part about that is now you know that the
topics are battle tested people are your
target audience is looking for that
content and that's their opinion around
it now when you say that hey here's how
to look at it and here's a better way to
solving it either they're going to agree
or disagree but they are definitely
going to take a look at it and consume
that content so that's how I go about it
for me search volume and SEO aspects
comes secondary I'm not saying it's not
important but for me taking that point
of view and taking a stand and being
different becomes way more important
than being better and ranking higher
um
yeah yes it's a fair point because for
certain categories certain industries
certain niches like they might not have
a ton of people
that are on going to Google and then
looking for that offer or looking for
that problem or whatever and like you
said you might be better creating a
podcast or creating a YouTube video
around it or posting it on LinkedIn or
wherever that Target markets hang out
it's a super valid point that makes
perfect sense
um any unusual cases yeah go anything a
bit different to the normal kind of
taking problems from sales because you
mentioned Community there
um or taking kind of common questions or
queries that the sales team get any
slightly lesser known ways that you've
kind of created this point of view
content or product LED content that
you've kind of gained insights from this
source and then put that into play and
it's it's kind of really resonated and
had success
uh let me um let me specifically think
about it I think uh it's not about a
specific way or this thing but I would
say that maybe you know uh I would like
to think about creating content for uh
stages of usage rather than uh um Let me
let me explain it this way
um a lot of people think that you know
you need to create content for top
funnel made funnel and bottom funnel and
uh one of my key learnings is that um
probably that's that worked in 2010 in
the early days of HubSpot but that's not
how it works right now I would rather
you know when I
um consume a piece of content and if I
find something really interesting and I
think okay this exactly solves my
problem I'm immediately go gonna go and
sign up for the product or at least take
a trial or maybe talk to the team and
see where it is and and here's the
beauty of it right so uh one of the
interesting conversations that I've been
having in certain communities and the
Insight that I've derived is that um a
lot of times we tend to lead with
um Roi uh kind of uh content you know we
talk about hey to do this to achieve
this to do this you do this or drive
Revenue with this and my point is
if everybody starts doing that
every single piece of content or across
all websites across all SAS is going to
look the same unfortunately uh in the
last six months with the kind of uh
layoffs and all the things that were
going on in the market pretty much every
company
um started to come up with the same kind
of messaging where you can save money by
doing this you can consolidate by doing
this but the problem is you know what
people don't realize is the people who
are buying your product
are not the people who are giving you
the budget you know maybe the CFO or the
cro is giving in the budget but somebody
else is actually using the product and
um here's the thing right so if I buy a
toy for my kid and uh my kid says it
sucks I'm gonna go and return it right
so I'm the buyer but the user is my kid
and he has to like the product right so
that's the same logic that goes on here
as well and you need to understand
um how people are looking at it what's
important there and then you have to
make sure that if you can reduce the
cycle uh instead of creating tofu mofu
and bofu content top funnel made from
the bottom funnel content
try and reduce it nobody has the time to
uh go and consume 12 pieces of content
before they sign up it's going to be
like how can I reduce the number of
steps you know if I can
um just put it in one blog or at best if
I can put it in one snippet of a video
and I can say that this point is
communicated here
unfortunately we live in a instant
noodles era so we have to keep it as
quick as possible I wouldn't say that
um the the
um you know what the time attention span
is reduced but the point is we're not
saying things differently and we are not
resonating with them instantly that's
the problem you know if we can talk
specifically to something that they're
going after
um for example instead of telling them
that you're gonna drive Revenue they
already know that incidents like inside
the company they must have already
discussed that in this quarter if you
have to hit these numbers then these are
the kind of kind of things that we need
to be doing they would have decided that
so that would in turn mean I
um you know I'm either going to invest
on this product or I'm going to invest
on this coaching or these kind of
programs or I'm going to invest on uh
certain trainings or whatever now
they've decided that this investing on
your product is going to give them a 25
increase in x y and z
your story of saying hey we'll give you
a 25 increase it's not going to uh do
much it's like they know they have
figured it out they have listed two or
three uh competitors of yours and they
wanted to compare and see the whole
point that you want to say at that point
is hey here's how we are different and
here's what we do that nobody else does
and this is how we're going to solve
your problem now they're going to
compare the three different approaches
and whichever resonates closest to them
they're going to go with them so it's
about understanding the intent and
getting cutting chairs and getting to
the point as quickly as possible
yeah yeah you're exactly right
um
especially in the tech space like we've
been talking about most of the podcasts
like websites in general most of them in
certain sectors look very similar a lot
of the messaging is very similar a lot
of the messaging is very vague
um even when you get into product or
service Pages they none of not many
websites tend to leverage the things
we've been talking about in terms of
really talking about specific problems
impact of problems and then getting to
the point of kind of the transformation
that they can bring yeah
um is there anything else you think when
creating this media whether it is kind
of article or service or product pages
on websites or whether it's a different
format podcast video anything else you
think that companies should consider so
they can really stand out compared to
their competitors that probably are just
saying oh we're going to improve your
revenue or we're going to help you lower
costs just so they can kind of have a
better chance of I guess building trust
with their prospects yeah so one of the
things that you can do is like if you
are a horizontal product that caters to
multiple people and you have a plethora
of features consider somebody like
HubSpot for example you know they have
four or five different products clubbed
into one ecosystem right so the point is
more and more companies are becoming
that all-in-one style but when you think
about it from a consumer standpoint you
know you want the answer uh you're not
gonna oh this these guys offer all of
these things now I have to go and check
each of each of these factors to replace
all my tools it's going to be one
platform that's fine but uh you know I
don't have the time for all of this so
flip the approach and uh maybe say that
try this you know uh it's almost like uh
going into your KFC or McDonald's and
saying that instead of giving you the
menu card it's just like giving you
one chicken nugget and saying hey taste
this tell me what do you feel that's a
much simpler approach get the hook get
them in and once it's it's under the
thought process that if they like this
they're gonna pretty much like
everything that I have in my store so be
suggestive and start there rather than
trying to establish that hey I'm this
huge store that offers all of these
things they don't care they primarily
are trying to solve one thing that is
top of their mind right now so let them
uh lead with that and then probably once
they get the foot in you land an expand
nice nice so to wrap things up going
back to the initial conversation around
point of view so from my situation yeah
I can probably yours as well like we
both run businesses so we're we're not
under
pressure from management or anything
like that we're very very flexible like
for example I can go onto LinkedIn today
and I can quite literally post most SEO
and web agencies suck they're going to
try and pressure you into buying on demo
calls whereas I'll quite often go the
opposite way and explain why we're not a
good fit for 90 of companies yeah yeah
also explain that a lot of Industries
aren't a good match for SEO and they can
go different models like outbound paid
ads instead before they consider SEO
like I can be very blunt I can be very
straight to the point with my messaging
on our website on on other forms of
media but a lot of businesses can't
because they've got a ton of red tape
and perhaps if they're a startup they're
a lot more flexible
um whereas if they're bigger
organizations they're gonna have to go
through a lot of paperwork management
Etc so I guess what I'm asking at is
should you try and go
super different to your competitors with
your point of view
yes or no and if you do
is that a good thing or from your
experience what you've seen and feel
free to share an examples could it could
it harm you or is it generally a good
thing to stand out
right so I would definitely say that
it's better to stand out uh and attract
the right kind of audience uh rather
than um trying to be like everyone else
yes it's not going to be easy and um
especially in the initial stage of an
organization when you're working with a
Founder who's passionately built a
product it's going to be very difficult
to convince because what you're trying
to do is you're trying to entirely
shrink their huge Vision into a one line
and uh you know you're going to often
see them shrink in their seat and it has
happened quite a lot but the reality is
that you know
it's it's about it's not about what I
want to say you know it's about how much
I want to resonate with somebody else in
fact uh you're right you know when as an
as an individual organization you can do
anything that you want in fact uh on SAS
Prince website I have said that um you
know we create content for B2B SAS that
have a point of view which pretty much
means that if you don't have a point of
view I'll not work with you so that's
that's a whole different thing but when
you work with an organization it's it's
also about using that as an opportunity
to uh put out your approach and saying
that this is how we look at things
when there are way you know over a
period of time every single product
category is going to get commoditized
and uh at that point
it's all about the people who have the
same approach as yours are going to come
to you
um today if you look at it uh when
you're going and buying a shoe is you're
going to think about it's you're not
going to compare features you're just if
you like Reebok you're gonna go with
that if you would like Nike you're gonna
go with that or if you like Puma you're
gonna go with that simple as that so at
that when it comes to that level over a
period of time there is no feature
comparison same thing in Tech right so
when somebody is investing on uh
Microsoft versus Google they're not
comparing feature to feature at that
point they're saying that I like
Microsoft or I like Google
as simple as that
but in and all of those things comes
because everybody has established a
certain kind of DNA over a period of
time
and then that DNA is what helps and in
the beginning stages
um the smaller your product the more
easier it's for you to tell a unique
story as you get bigger and bigger you
have to a handpick and say that this is
my door opener versus uh this is what I
offer once they come in so it's going to
be changes in approach but I still will
100 stand by the fact that you have to
have a point of view and that's that's
where you should go with completely
agree completely agree I'll share a
quick story
um so it's like creating content on
LinkedIn right like now you can
literally just chat DPT or anything like
that and just post an AI post but the
chances are you can give AI a few
prompts on what you want to talk about
but the post is going to flop or get
like two likes and one of those would be
the company dog and one will be the MD
um
whereas the people that actually do well
on LinkedIn and by what do well I mean
actually get engagement and
um leads from their target market quite
literally doing what we've talked about
on this episode so giving their own
unique insights given their contrary
takes or making their predictions or
using their own stories or their own
conversations to influence kind of what
they talk about and their their two
cents on on their industry their Niche
um for example all the people that I've
bought from personally and on LinkedIn
has been because I follow that content
for some time it wasn't them literally
just saying like this is the problem we
solve and this is our service it was
them sharing their own stories their own
point of view their own ideas their own
opinions on certain tactics what they
thought was flawed in the market
um and when when you see that kind of
daily or weekly it's it slowly builds
trust with the only kind of thing yeah I
agree with their point of view I
actually kind of agree with it's going
to repel some people which is good
because they might not be the best
people to work with but likewise it's
going to attract the people that will
resonate with your messaging and we'll
kind of think this person's got
something interesting refund Labs is a
great example right so everybody has
yeah Chris Walker talks I didn't want to
say Chris Walker
exactly and even in my personal uh you
know business I've very clearly seen
that a lot of people you know who have
worked with me in the last three months
or so
um again my company is just getting
built right so um I'm very early in my
journey but all the people who have
reached out to me inbound and started
this conversation and the companies that
I've started to work with is purely
because of the relationships that have
been built on LinkedIn and the
continuous point of view that I've been
uh that I've been putting out over the
years sometimes it's like uh you know a
combination of both right so if as an
organization you're not been out there
for a long time you're going to think
that okay let me do a good combination
of capture and uh demand generation for
the future but when you're an individual
and you've already invested you're gonna
see that okay can I capitalize on this
so it's going to be a combination always
agreed agreed good Vice band Jack thanks
very much conversation for the
conversation sir appreciate the chat
please do tell us more about how
everyone tuning in can learn from you
connect with you and a bit more about
your your company your website
absolutely thank you so much first of
all Sam I absolutely enjoyed this
conversation with you so much fun and
for all the listeners over there
um you can connect with me on LinkedIn
just type why AAG and uh you will find
me there my full name is Ganesh and my
company's name is SAS prince it's
s-a-a-s hyphen s p r i n t s.com so we
do uh content for B2B SAS companies that
have a point of view and I help them
create written content as well as
previous podcasts so anything in the
realm of p2b content reach out to me and
I'll have I'll be happy to talk to you
Legend thanks once again for the chat
yag
thank you so much
no worries and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode a quick rating or review
on your podcast channels appreciate it
or if you're on YouTube a subscribe goes
a long way and with that we'll catch you
on the next one all of yarg's links will
be on the show notes at business growth
dot marketing and we'll catch you on the
next one cheers tuning in